Suppose that you extract a paragraph
(chunk) from a large text document such as a Harry Potter
book. To what extent could one (as a human) understand
that paragraph without having read the entirety of the
novel? It is likely that a lack of understanding would be
apparent, particularly with regard to terms that are unique
to the context of the novels and the main plot of the story.
Although this may be an extreme example due to the size
and scope of the imaginary universe, which includes magic
and ﬁctional characters, the principle of the BCE also
applies to contextualized documents in business applica-
tions. Therefore, the use of RAG with rich data still has
limitations in terms of comprehensive understanding. In
such cases, recent developments, including RAPTOR
(Sarthi et al. 2024) and GraphRAG (Edge et al.

---

 upload documents ‘ ‘on the ﬂy’ ’ and to use this information in the
generation process.
Amri et al. ( 2024) and Khan et al. ( 2024)
Context-
speciﬁc
answers
RAG can be used to enhance the development of applications that require
speciﬁc information. For example, AI-empowered programming assistants
that are tailored to course-speciﬁc content can use additional data sources
(such as course materials) to improve the accuracy of results and include a
reference to the relevant material.
Wei et al. ( 2024), Kazemitabaar et al. ( 2024), Rai
et al. ( 2024) and Strobel and Banh ( 2024)
Enhanced
content
generation
RAG can be used to guide the content generation process by incorporating
additional data. In this way, the quality and relevance of the content
generated reﬂects current knowledge and trends relevant to the generation of
content such as commentary.
Wu et al. ( 2024) and Wang et al.

---

 more recent solutions
can use whole documents rather than smaller text chunks.
123
M. Klesel, H. F. Wittmann: Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG), Bus Inf Syst Eng 67(4):551–561 (2025) 553
Content courtesy of Springer Nature, terms of use apply. Rights reserved.
query: [query].’ The [context] part can include links to the
most relevant documents found in the vector database.
Generator The generator takes the query augmented
with information from the database and generates a new
result. Again, the generation process can use the informa-
tion of the context and provide the link to the original
document (e.g., a hyperlink to a document).
2.2 Enhanced RAG
Figure 2 provides an overview of what can be considered a
plain vanilla RAG architecture. In addition, recent litera-
ture suggests several ways to improve the performance of a
basic plain vanilla RAG architecture.